---
title: "Cyber Security Engineering 230"
excerpt: "The first in the Iowa State Cyber Security core classes. This is a lab focused course on the creation of systems, and how to secure them."
header:
  image: /assets/images/CYBE230/CYBE230FinalDiagram.png
  teaser: /assets/images/CYBE230/CYBE230FinalDiagram-th.png
sidebar:
  - title: "Class Objectives"
    text: "The objective was to learn how to build and deploy network services securely."
redirect_from: 
  - portfolio/CPRE230/
permalink: "portfolio/CYBE230"
---

Cyber Security Engineering 230 is titled "Introduction to Cyber Security Fundamentals" and is cross-listed as Computer Engineering 230 (CPRE230). This is the first class in the series of required Cyber Security classes at Iowa State University. This class is lab-based with most of the learning be done in lab, where over the course of a semester, built out a network, and deployed systems. We started out the semester with basic Linux usage, and setup inside our testing environment, and then moved into the rest of the semester where we set up variety of services including, LDAP, DNS, Firewalls, and a pair of different web stacks. While talking about the different web stacks, we also talked about some potential vulnerabilities, and how some of the best ways to mitigate the vulnerabilities. To end the semester we had a capstone lab, where we were given an already configured machine, and using the tools from prior labs, we had to find a set of vulnerabilities that exist, and write a small report, on how to mitigate them.

With this course being a primarily lab based course, there was a set of different material covered in each lab.

<h2 class="archive__subtitle">For a brief overview of the labs view below, and click on a specific lab to learn more about that specific lab.</h2>

{% for collection in site.collections %}
  {% for post in collection.docs %}
    {% if post.class == "CYBE230" %}
      {% include lab-list-creator.html %}
    {% endif %}
  {% endfor %}
{% endfor %}
